hello my name is dr. david edelstein i'm
a board-certified orthopedist
specializing in hand surgery who works
at maimonides medical center i went to
medical school at Albert Einstein
College of Medicine from there actually
came here to maimonides medical center
to do orthopedic training and subsequent
to that I did a fellowship in hand
surgery at hospital for joint diseases I
went into orthopedics initially it's a
very goal-oriented field so you really
see notice patient improvements
sometimes in a very rapid period of time
and then I sort of filed that up with a
hand surgery for I guess a couple of
reasons one the anatomy gahanna of the
hand fascinates me in itself it's really
about getting patients back to function
which I think has always been a goal in
something I wanted to do and the other
sort of benefit of hand surgery really
get to work with the full spectrum of
patients terms of newborns all the way
up to patients who are hundred years old
so it's gratify besides the ages and you
have nerve problems you have skin
problems you have I guess problems you
know newborns congenital problems you
have fracture problems and tendon so it
really sort of fills the whole spectrum
of different types of problems all
located in one body part
we really individualize the care to the
specific patient you know patients not a
disease entity there are a person first
of all and we really have a
multimodality approach you know while
I'm a hand surgeon I mean we have a hand
therapist in the office we treat
patients with splinting injections hand
therapy and you know it's only a small
percentage of patients that actually
have surgery most problems could be
remedied you know non-surgically some
patients are sent to me specifically for
surgery but we find that their ways to
treat them without surgery and you know
they're very happy I think the trend now
is really you know once upon a time
patients we had to immobilize them for a
long time after broken bones or after
even complex surgery now because some of
new techniques we have both surgical
non-surgical we're trying to get the
patient's moving much faster when
finding that the results are much better
patients return to work much faster the
operating on a newborn could be a
challenging and some of the bones are
informed yet and the structures are very
small so obviously before we undertake
any you know surgery in a newborn you
know we make sure you know with the
pediatrician that they're healthy and
there no medical issues and then I guess
the technical part of the surgery it's
difficult at times we a lot of times use
the microscope you know so we could see
some of these structures and sometimes
it is I mean it is much different than
an adult and but you know the goal a lot
of times is the same as to increase
long-term function
I don't know if it's you know one
patient but I do enjoy some of the
congenital you know surgery on sometimes
newborns for congenital deformities and
usually the patients are really the
parents come to me for what's deemed a
cosmetic deformity and my goal is to
give them long-term function and I'll
see them five years later and the
parents are happy because the hand looks
normal but I'm happy because the kid
normal kid and he's doing everything he
wanted to do so those cases are
especially gratifying